-------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------ Submission 249, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: Decision-Support for Urban Search & Rescue Mission Planning through Visualization-Based Analysis

Reviewer:           primary

Second Round Recommendation



Second Round Review Text


Summary Rating

  2  (<b>Probably reject:</b> This paper is not ready for publication even with major changes.)

Summary Review (1st review cycle)

  This paper presents a very interesting system that helps solve a
  practical problem. The paper is generally well written and easy to
  follow. Although this work has some merits, there are a few serious
  issues in the paper:
  -. Technical novelty is low
  -. Design rational is unclear and problematic
  -. Evaluation is unconvincing
  -. Missing many references
  -. Usability of the system is questionable 

  The issues  cannot be addressed in a short time. Nevertheless, this work
  has great potential. The authors are highly encouraged to continue this
  work.

Type of Paper

  Application / Design Study

Novelty

  Weakly advocate against 

Significance

  Strongly advocate for

Significance/Novelty: Rating Justification

  This paper targets a very important problem in real world – urban
  search and rescue planning. The authors present a comprehensive
  visualization system combining a 3D path visualization, PCPs, scatterplot
  matrix, and line charts to address the problem. Although the techniques
  are not particularly new, the authors combine the techniques in a new way
  to solve a very interesting and important problem. The usefulness of the
  overall system have been demonstrated in the case studies and expert
  review. The contribution is significant as the work provides a useful 3D
  visualization solution to the problem.

Significance/Novelty: How To Improve? 

  The authors are highly encouraged to continue to improve the system by
  considering other alternative multidimensional visualization techniques.
  The PCPs and Scatterplot matrix may not be the best choice.

  The authors can also explore how to find a good set of parameters for the
  metric (Equation (1)) automatically.

Exposition and Detail

  Somewhat

Exposition and Detail: How To Improve?

  I’d like to see more details on the major application case and the two
  test cases which are quite critical to demonstrate the usability of the
  system. For example, the author should explain more about how these
  linked views can facilitate the exploration of the desired path.

Paper Length


Limitations and Drawbacks

  There are several following drawbacks needed to be addressed:

  Regarding to the path computation (or route planning), what is the
  difference between the proposed algorithm and the ones [4,28] mentioned
  in related work section. The metric (Equation (1)) is critically
  important for path computation. However, the linear weighted combination
  of different weights could easily result in many different parameter
  combinations. The authors should clarify how to select good weights. Is
  there any practical strategy to get a good set of weights? Otherwise the
  IC may need to spend much longer time (2 minutes for each path in
  authors’ case) on adjusting the weights to obtain an optimal path,
  which could lead to limited use of the system.

  Regarding to the visual path analysis tools such as PCP, SPLOM, the
  design rationality like ensuring or breaking the visual link is
  reasonable. However, a better design rational should be provided. When
  there are so many multivariate visual data analysis tools, why the two
  have been selected? The user feedback is actually against their choice.
  In this paper, there are only a few computed paths. PCPs, which is mainly
  used for visualizing many data items, may not be the best choice here to
  visualize the data.

  In section 5.1, it is unclear how the authors determine to use these
  different types of data attributes? Are these attributes suggested by the
  domain experts or borrowed from some related work? 

Method Evaluation 

  The evaluation is overall good and can demonstrate the effectiveness and
  usefulness of the system. However, the expert review conducted by showing
  the experts only the images or videos is somehow not effective. Although
  some useful feedback has been collected, this expert review may not
  provide the insight into the tool. 

  A training part has been missed in the evaluation, which may lead to the
  difficulty for the experts to understand the PCP or SPLOM. In Step 2 of
  the webpages provided by the authors, the color and width of the paths
  should be more salient.

References

  The references are complete.

Final Judgment: Overall rating

  3  (<b>Borderline:</b> This paper might be acceptable with major  changes.)

Final Judgment: Justification

  This paper is well written and well-motivated. It targets a very
  interesting and important problem of urban search and rescue mission
  planning. The solution with a combination of 3D Visualization, PCPs, and
  scatterplot matrix to the problem is novel. However, there are still a
  few issues the authors must address.
  First, the authors must provide a clearer rationale for the designs, a
  more comprehensive description of the design choices and systematic,
  critical evaluation that informs the reader as to where the approaches
  are either really stretched or fail completely would be very helpful.
  Interaction should be considered. Munzner's Nested Model paper could
  provide some guidance here (DOI:10.1109/TVCG.2009.111). Some design such
  as PCPs and scatterplots are actually not effective. 

  Second, the expert review is weak since the authors provide only images
  and videos to the domain experts. The feedback of the users on the PCPs
  and scatterplots is actually quite negative. This reflects that the
  authors did not carefully design the visualization components.

  Therefore, this paper is a borderline paper.

Ultimate Judgment

  top 50%

Expertise

  3  (Expert)


------------------------ Submission 249, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: Decision-Support for Urban Search & Rescue Mission Planning through Visualization-Based Analysis

Reviewer:           secondary

Type of Paper

  System

Novelty

  Weakly advocate for

Significance

  Weakly advocate for

Significance/Novelty: Rating Justification

  The ideas presented in this paper are not novel and straight forward.
  Technology will evolve and will sooner or later replace hand-drawn maps
  used during SAR missions. The authors of this paper present and evaluate
  an approach to this but it will need much more iterations until such
  systems gain acceptance and are perfectly suited for those applications.

Significance/Novelty: How To Improve? 

  A survey among experts on how to improve SAR mission planning with
  current technology in advance might have helped to identify possible
  avenues without overwhelming experts with a selection of information
  visualization techniques (PCP, SPLOM) in a prototyped system.
  E.g. the integration of requested camera images into the visualization
  would have possibly increased the acceptance dramatically.

Exposition and Detail

  Somewhat

Exposition and Detail: How To Improve?

  It might be more useful to assign the same axis format to the SPLOM as
  done for the PCP. E.g. the minimum distance to hazards axis in the SPLOM
  should have the same orientation as in the PCP with the meaning of "good"
  for small x values (left) and the meaning of "bad" for large x values
  (right). That might help to increase the acceptance for SPLOM if the
  meaning of points across visualizations is even more unified.

  It is unclear why there is a medium to large support filed on the walls
  in Figure 5b which do clearly not coincide with horizontal surfaces.

  It is also unclear why there can be areas where a responder can stand but
  not crouch and why responders should be able to crouch on walls as
  depicted in Figure 5d.

  The caption of Figure 3 points to the FEMA annotations in the image that
  are hardly visible on a printed copy of the paper. The size of the image
  should be larger.

  There are some minor typos and wrong references to Figures.
  e.g.:
  - caption of Figure 1: "... at the a collapsed ..."
  - caption of Figure 8: "(a)", "(b)" and "(c)" seem to be swapped
  - caption of Figure 7: The symbol "r" is not introduced but used in the
  text. It looks like 'r' is the same as 'u' otherwise the authors should
  clarify that.

Paper Length

  There is nothing to object.

Limitations and Drawbacks

  As reported by the experts too much information (SPLOM) is presented to
  them that requires training. SPLOMs are made for scientists and not for
  fire fighters.
  Camera images mapped to the voxels would potentially give them the
  information they need.

Method Evaluation 

  It would be very interesting to integrate the proposed approach in a
  simulated environment and measure how trained teams perform with and
  without the new system.

References

  There is nothing to object.

Final Judgment: Overall rating

  4  (<b>Probably accept:</b> This paper will be acceptable with minor changes.)

Final Judgment: Justification

  I weakly argue for accepting this paper because it is very well written
  and convincing but decisions to confront domain experts with PCPs and
  SPLOMs seem to be only made for the targeted visualization conference and
  not for the requirements of the experts which renders the approach
  questionable.

Ultimate Judgment

  top 25%

Expertise

  2  (Knowledgable)


------------------------ Submission 249, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: Decision-Support for Urban Search & Rescue Mission Planning through Visualization-Based Analysis

Reviewer:           external

Type of Paper

  System

Novelty

  Weakly advocate against 

Significance

  Weakly advocate against 

Significance/Novelty: Rating Justification

  Although the paper provides a visualization system for making decision to
  support rescue mission planning, the effects of visualization components
  embedded in the system has not been fully clarified through the user
  study. Thus additional user studies with more sophisticated design should
  be conducted to fully assess and justify the proposed system integration.

Significance/Novelty: How To Improve? 

  Additional control experiments must be mandatory for evaluating each
  visualization component implemented in the system. For example, the
  participants (domain experts) should be divided into two groups, where
  one group is asked to use the system together with all the visualization
  components while the other group does the same task while one specific
  visualization functionality is missing. In this way, we can evaluate the
  usefulness of each of visualization components including profile plots,
  parallel coordinates plots, and scatterplot matrices.

  The design of the user study conducted in this work has not fully
  elaborated and thus the associated results are not fully convincing.

Exposition and Detail

  Somewhat

Exposition and Detail: How To Improve?

  Basically the paper has been well-written.

  However, the paper does not fully describe how the visualization
  techniques such as parallel coordinates plots and scatterplot matrices
  help users to find feasible paths in the proposed visualization system. 
  Explanations in Section 5.4 should be revised to address this issue.

  Furthermore, several other explanations and mathematical notations are
  not still unclear. Example includes:

  p.4, left
  - ", and H^i_s the normalized severity for i."

  How can we compute the normalized severity?

  p.4, left
  - "min_j( L_2( i, H^j ), H^J_s )"

  What is H^j?  Is it the j-th hazard point of the set H?

  p.4, right
  - Eq(1)

  Did you describe how we can manage to adjust the four weight
  values?


  In addition, some minor issues...

  p.4, left
  - "... path ensemble is described in the same section, while ..." 

  the same section -> Section 5.4?

  p.4, right
  - "... the list and marked as visited. the current point is ..."

  the -> The  

Paper Length

  The paper should be shorted when the content is taken into account.  I
  cannot specifically indicate which part should be omitted, while I would
  like to suggest  several possibilities:

  - Sections 3 and 4 are interesting and beneficial for those who are not
  fully familiar with these concepts while not all of the issues discussed
  in these sections are not necessary to understand the system
  implementations described in the following sections. Thus, it is possible
  to exclude irrelevant concepts for understanding the core of this
  approach.

  - Section 8 is quite unclear and not fully systematic. Try to employ some
  tables, for example, to clarify how the participants are classified into
  group according to the visualization components implemented in the
  system.  This part can be considerably reduced.

Limitations and Drawbacks

  Limitations and drawbacks are implicitly described in the Evaluation
  section (Section 8), while the description remains to be improved
  somehow.

Method Evaluation 

  This is one of the most important factors for the evaluation of this work
  since this will be categorized into a system paper. As described above,
  systematic control experiments must be conducted to evaluate each of the
  visualization components embedded in the system.

  Indeed, it is crucial to assess how the incorporated visualization
  frameworks (profile plots, parallel coordinates plots, scatterplot
  matrices) really enhance the decision making for planning rescue
  missions.  In the current version of the paper, the participants are just
  asked to interact with the visualization components and leave their
  feedback, while this will not fully elucidate the practical value of the
  visualization system.

References

  More references should be listed on the visual analytic side, including
  state-of-the-art techniques for exploring high-dimensional datasets. Some
  of the possible references (not limited to)

  A. Tatu, F. Maass, I. Farber, E. Bertini, T. Schreck,
  T. Seidl, and D. Keim. Subspace search and visualization to
  make sense of alternative clusterings in high-dimensional
  data. In Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Visual Analytics
  Science and Technology (VAST), pages 63-72, 2012.

  X. Yuan, D. Ren, Z. Wang, and C. Guo. Dimension projection
  matrix/tree: Interactive subspace visual exploration and
  analysis of high dimensional data. IEEE Transactions on
  Visualization and Computer Graphics, 19(12):2625-2633, 2013.

Final Judgment: Overall rating

  2  ( <b>Probably reject:</b> This paper is not ready for publication even with major changes.)

Final Judgment: Justification

  The paper provides an interesting insight into how we can apply
  conventional visualization techniques to specific problems for rescue
  mission planning.  In this sense, the paper has potential to encourage
  technical cooperation among researchers both in the field of robotics and
  visualization.

  Nonetheless, the system is still just the combination of existing
  visualization techniques and several important issues on why the proposed
  combination is practically reasonable are not fully clarified in the
  paper.  The system can also be compared with existing decision support
  systems that are most relevant to the target task.

  Furthermore, especially as for a paper to be presented in "Visualization"
  conference, we need to see how the respective visualization components in
  the system actually
  help the incident commander to make decisions and plan rescue missions. 
  In this aspect, the work still need more sophisticated design of user
  studies including control experiments described above.

Ultimate Judgment

  the rest

Expertise

  2  (Knowledgable)


------------------------ Submission 249, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: Decision-Support for Urban Search & Rescue Mission Planning through Visualization-Based Analysis

Reviewer:           external

Type of Paper

  System

Novelty

  Weakly advocate against 

Significance

  Weakly advocate against 

Significance/Novelty: Rating Justification

  The paper describes a comprehensive system for visualizing and analyzing
  3D point cloud from LiDAR scans to optimize the workflow of search and
  rescue missions. The system allows users to select and interactively
  browse through a set of possible paths to reach a rescue target inside
  buildings. For each path, profiling information such as hazard distance
  and support structure would also be provided. The authors also conducted
  a user study through videos and web interface.

  Though the problem tackled the paper was well of interest of the
  visualization community, there was little novelty in the algorithms
  proposed in the system. The visualization techniques used in here are
  well-known and the way that they had been applied to the data was also
  not new. 

  It is also uncertain how the system would be used in a real-world
  pipeline. It doesn't sound efficient for a rescue team to arrive at a
  crash site first to send in a robot (which might takes time to scan),
  extracting the data, preprocessing and exploring several option on a
  computer before sending in support. If this is the case, the authors need
  to state it clear in the paper (preferably with a reference).

Significance/Novelty: How To Improve? 

  Points were being processed and visualized in a fairly simple way (vertex
  clustering and block visualization). I believe more advanced techniques
  could be applied to better enhance these visualizations, thus, to further
  assist users in exploration tasks. For example, handling multi-resolution
  data with hierarchical grids and a smoother point visualizing, e.g.
  splatting.

  As suggested above, the practicality of using the system on site is
  unconvincing. The authors should provide a reference to such use or
  adjust the motivation to a more off-line usage of the system.

Exposition and Detail

  Somewhat

Exposition and Detail: How To Improve?

  Some details are not clear in the paper. In particular:

  - how many paths would be presented to the users initially. In the paper
  and video, there seems to be 8 but will the users control this
  parameters?

  - how the scalar map (e.g. for hazard distance) is specified and how
  sensitive is the colormaps to users tasks.

  - how the space availability visualization (Figure 5d) being used in the
  practice.

Paper Length

  The paper length is appropriate.

Limitations and Drawbacks

  The 3D visualization has a very "blocky" feel. Though it make sense to
  embed the data in a grid-like structure for analysis purposes, it might
  be more informative to present the original point cloud to the user. The
  point cloud would be close to actual shape of site and users may greatly
  increase user's spatial awareness.


Method Evaluation 

  The evaluation was divided into sub-tasks (rendering, path finder, etc.),
  but missing an evaluation of the system as a whole, i.e. evaluating
  whether the system could be used for carrying out a specific mission.
  This is important since the main contribution of the paper was a
  comprehensive system. In order to do this, the system may have to be
  evaluated live by the users (e.g. giving them access to the binaries)
  instead of letting them interact through videos.

References

  The references are sufficient.

Final Judgment: Overall rating

  2  ( <b>Probably reject:</b> This paper is not ready for publication even with major changes.)

Final Judgment: Justification

  Overall, the paper is well-written but lacking novelty in new algorithms
  as well as the way existing techniques are being used. Though search and
  rescue would make an important showcase with great impact for
  visualization, the problem statement was not very strong as stated in
  justification for significance. I believe the paper is not ready for
  publication and would would strongly suggest the authors to further
  extend the use of visualization as well as the evaluation method.

Ultimate Judgment

  top 50%

Expertise

  2  (Knowledgable)



--------------------------------------------------------------------